---
layout: post
title: Hidden Secrets Of Money - The Debt Ceiling Delusion
description: Hidden Secrets Of Money Ep.4 - The Debt Ceiling Delusion
author: Mike Maloney
authorurl: /michael-maloney/
published: true
---

<p>In this video, Mike Maloney talks about Federal reserve secrets and how it affects the world history. He explains how someone can control the world economy while others are struggling on day-to-day living. Thru this video, you can be one of a million that learns how the government, the federal reserve and the banking sectors being used to control economy status.</p>

<iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iFDe5kUUyT0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<h2>TRANSCRIPT</h2>
<p>You are about to learn one of the biggest secrets in the history of the world.  It's a secret that has huge effects for everyone who lives on this planet.  Most people can feel deep down that something isn't quite right with the world economy, but few know what it is.  Gone are the days where a family can survive on just one paycheck.  Every day it seems things are more and more out of control, yet only one in a million understand why.  
<p>You are about to discover the system that is ultimately responsible for most of the inequality in our world today.  The powers that be do not want you to know about this as this system is what has kept them at the top of the financial food chain for the last 100 years.  Learning this will change your life because it will change the choices that you make.  If enough people learn it, it will change the world.  Because it'll change the system.  For this is the biggest Hidden Secret of Money.  Never in human history have so many been plundered by so few.  And it's all accomplished through this, The Biggest Scam in the History of Mankind.
<p>They say that money doesn't grow on trees but the truth is that the modern banking system creates currency far faster than trees can grow.  Most people don't have a clue how currency is created.  Economists and bankers make it sound so complex that people think they can't understand it.  But I'm going to strip our monetary system down to its essence so that you can see the scam behind the curtain and just how it affects you.  
<p>Every modern society creates currency in pretty much the same way.  But since the US dollar is the majority of the world's currency, I'm going to use the United States as our example.  It all starts when some politician says vote for me and I'll make sure the government provides you more free stuff than my opponent will.  But there's no such thing as a free lunch.  So to provide that supposedly free stuff the politicians vote for the country to spend more than its income.  This is called deficit spending.  
<p>To pay for that deficit spending the Treasury borrows currency by issuing a bond.  So what's a bond?  If you think about it a bond is really nothing but a glorified IOU.  It's a pretty piece of paper with numbers printed on it that says loan me a trillion dollars today and I promise over a 10-year period I'm going to pay you back that trillion dollars plus interest.  But what you need to understand is that treasury bonds are our national debt.  These glorified IOU's are to be paid back by you and I and our descendants through future taxation.  Therefore, when the government issues a bond it steals prosperity out of the future so that it can spend it today.  
<p>The Treasury then holds a bond auction and the world's largest banks show up and compete to buy part of our national debt and make a profit on it by earning interest.  You'll notice that as we move through this process the big banks are there taking a cut every step of the way.  This isn't by chance as you'll see shortly.  Then, through a shell game called Open Market Operations the banks get to sell some of those bonds to the Federal Reserve at a profit.  To pay for the bonds the Federal Reserve opens up its big old checkbook and writes bad, bogus, counterfeit checks that should bounce because they're drawn on an account that always has a zero balance, there isn't one penny in there.  
<p>To quote from the Boston Federal Reserve, when you or I write a check there must be sufficient funds in our account to cover that check.  But when the Federal Reserve writes a check there is no bank deposit on which that check is drawn.  When the Federal Reserve writes a check it is creating money.  The Fed then hands those checks to the banks and at this point currency springs into existence.  
<p>The banks then take that currency and buy more bonds at the next Treasury auction.  But what is a check?  A check is also an IOU.  When you write a check you're making a note that says here's my IOU for cash, all you have to do is go to the bank and pick it up.  Now it's very, very important that you understand this process because we're going to come back later and show you the devastating effect this has on you.  
<p>The Treasury issues IOU's, bonds.  The banks then buy those IOU's with currency.  The Federal Reserve then writes IOU's, checks and hands them to the banks in exchange for the Treasury's IOU's, the bonds.  And currency is created.  So what's really happening is the Federal Reserve and the Treasury are just swapping IOU's using the banks as middlemen and abracadabra presto currency magically springs into existence.  This process repeats and repeats over and over again enriching the banks and indebting the public by raising the national debt.  
<p>The end result is that there's a buildup of bonds at the Federal Reserve and currency at the Treasury.  This process is also where all paper currency comes from.  The Federal Reserve and the government mistakenly call it base money because they didn't watch Episode 1 of this series, and they don't know the difference between money and currency.  
<p>But I will correctly refer to it as base currency because it is not money.  It is currency and as we've learned there is a big difference.  Money has to be a store of value and maintain its purchasing power over long periods of time.  We learned in Episode 1 that earlier in our history our paper currency was just a claim check.  It was a representation for real money of intrinsic value, the gold and silver that was held on deposit at the Treasury.  You could walk into any bank and slap your currency, like, say a $20 bill on the counter, and redeem it for real money, a $20 gold piece.  
<p>But now this base currency that's piling up back here is really nothing but a receipt or a claim check on an IOU, that bond.  So it's really nothing but a supply of numbers.  The Treasury then deposits the newly created currency into the various branches of the government, and the politicians say hey thanks for that.  And the government does some deficit spending on public works, social programs and war.  The government employees, contractors and soldiers then deposit their pay in the banks.  Now this may come as a shock to you, but when you deposit your currency with the bank you're not actually depositing it into an account to be safely held and trust for you.  Instead, you're actually loaning the bank your currency.  And within certain legal limits they can do with it pretty much anything they please.  This includes gambling in the stock market and loaning it out at a profit of course.  
<p>Now this is where the machine of currency creation really gets cranking.  Because this is where something called Fractional Reserve Lending comes into play.  Fractional Reserve Lending is exactly what it says.  The banks are allowed to reserve only a fraction of your deposit and loan the rest out.  Although reserve ratios may vary, I'm going to use a 10% reserve ratio as our example.  If you deposit $100 in your account, the bank can legally take $90 of it and loan it out without telling you.  The bank must hold $10 of your deposit in reserve just in case you want some of it.  These reserves are called Vault Cash.  But why does your bank account still say you have $100 if the bank has stolen $90 of it?  Because the bank left IOUs it created called the bank credit in its place.  
<p>Now I know this sounds crazy.  But here it is in black and white from the Fed, Commercial banks create checkbook money when they grant a loan simply by adding new deposit dollars in accounts on their books in exchange for a borrower's IOU.  These are nothing but numbers that the banks type into their computers.  And even though these bank credit IOU numbers are very different from base currency numbers because they only exist in computers they are still currency.  
<p>So now there is $190 in existence.  Now the reason people take out loans from the banks is to buy something.  They're going to buy a house or a car or something like that.  So the borrower takes the $90 that the bank loaned to him from your account.  And he pays the seller of item.  But then the seller deposits that currency into his account and his bank loans out 90% of that and leaves bank credit numbers in its place.  So now there's $271 in existence.  This process repeats and repeats until under a 10% reserve ratio, an initial deposit of just $100 can create up to $1000 of bank credit all backed by $100 of vault cash, just 10% percent.  
<p>But as I said reserve ratios vary wildly.  On some deposits it's 10%, on others its 3% and on some forms of deposits reserve requirements are zero.  The result is that the expansion the currency supply by the banks is far greater than even this example would lead you to believe.  So once again, when currency is deposited in the banks, the banks get to lend it out and then it gets we redeposited and relent, redeposited and relent, redeposited and relent over and over again creating bank credit all the way.  This is where the vast majority of our currency supply comes from.  In fact, 92 to 96% of all currency in existence is created not by the government but here in the banking system.  
<p>Now massive amounts of currency spewing into society may at first sound like a fun idea that is until you remember one of the most important hidden secrets of money from Episode 1, that the prices of everyday goods and services act as a sponge on an expanding currency supply.  The more currency we have the more prices rise.  This is where inflation comes from.  The true definition of inflation is an expansion of the currency supply.  Rising prices are merely the symptom.  
<p>So our entire currency supply is nothing but a couple of bucks whipped up in this hocus-pocus scam where the Treasury and the Federal Reserve swap glorified IOU's and a bunch of numbers that the banks just type into their computers.  That's it.  That's our entire currency supply.  It's nothing but a supply of numbers.  Some of them printed, most of them typed, and there is nothing else.  But if you thought that was crazy, get ready to enter the twilight zone of modern economics.  
<p>We work for some of that currency supply.  True wealth is your time.  But we trade away moments of our lives hour by hour, day by day and year by year for numbers that somebody printed on pieces of paper or just typed into a computer.  Now those numbers represent our blood, sweat, tears, labor, ideas and talent.  We are what gives the currency its value.  But here comes the really cruel joke.  We work hard so that we can save some of that currency so that we can pay the tax collector.  In the United States it's known as the IRS.  They then turn it over to the Treasury so that the Treasury can pay the principal plus interest on that bond that the Federal Reserve bought with a check drawn on an account that has nothing in it.  
<p>Now let's do a recap on this section because this is where the system begins to rob you and I on a massive scale.  Much of our taxes are not used for schools, roads and public services but to pay interest on bonds that the Federal Reserve bought with a check drawn on an account that has nothing in it.  The Federal Reserve is committing fraud.  But here's one of the biggest secrets of them all.  Before the establishment of the Federal Reserve there was no need for personal income tax.  The Federal Reserve was created in 1913 and that very same year the Constitution was amended to allow income tax.  Do you really think this was just a coincidence?  
<p>Ask yourself how much income tax you've paid over your lifetime.  Much of it has been silently siphoned away into the hands of those who own the system.  Yes, this system has owners.  Who they are is an even bigger secret that we'll get to shortly.  But first, we need to understand the mumbo-jumbo of the so-called debt ceiling.  It's all based on a huge paradox.  There was interest due on that bond, and there was interest due on every one of those loans that the banks made.  That means that there is interest due on every dollar in existence.  
<p>Let me ask you something.  If you borrow the very first dollar into existence and that's the only dollar that exists on the planet but you promise to pay it back plus another dollar worth of interest.  Where do you get the second dollar to pay the interest?  The answer is that you have to borrow that one into existence and promise to pay it back with interest as well.  So now there are two dollars in existence but you owe four.  And so on and so on.  
<p>The result is there's never enough currency to pay the debt.  There is always more debt in the system than there is currency in existence to pay the debt.  Therefore, the whole system is impossible.  It is finite.  It will come to an end one day.  What would happen if the government stopped borrowing to do deficit spending?  Are the payments on those treasury bonds going to stop?  What would happen if the public stopped borrowing and going deeper into debt?  Are your house and car payments going to stop?  No.  There is a payment due every month on the principal plus the interest on every dollar in existence and those payments do not stop.  If we stop borrowing then no new currency is created to replace the currency that we used to make those payments.  
<p>Whether you're making a payment on a loan or paying tax to make a payment on a bond, the portion of the payment that goes to pay off the principal extinguishes that portion of the debt.  But the debt also extinguishes the currency.  Currency and debt are like matter and anti-matter.  When they meet, they annihilate each other.  If we just pay off the principal only on all the loans and bonds that exist the entire currency supply just vanishes.  So if we don't go deeper into debt every year look what happens.  The whole thing goes into a deflationary collapse under the weight of those payments.  
<p>Politicians and pundits alike talk about balancing the budget, paying down the debt and living within our means.  They don't understand that that is deflationary.  It is impossible to do under our current monetary system without collapsing the whole economy.  This is why any talk of a debt ceiling is not only ridiculous it's delusional.  The system is designed to require ever increasing levels of debt just to continue.  And that's why politicians will always kick the can down the road and raise this so called debt ceiling over and over again until the whole system finally collapses under its own weight.  In other words, they don't want it to collapse on their watch.  
<p>The founding fathers of the United States knew the dangers of central banking and fought to free themselves from this very thing.  The Revolutionary War started out as a tax revolt.  But now we must pay tax just to have a monetary system.  Having just suffered through the hyperinflation of the Continental Dollar which was printed into oblivion to finance the Revolutionary War they understood the dangers of fiat currency and debt based monetary systems.  So to protect future generations from institutional theft and out-of-control government, they wrote into the constitution that only gold and silver can be money for the simple fact that you can't print them. 
<p>Our current system is not only unconstitutional, but it robs us of the liberty and prosperity our forefathers fought and died for.  We are all feeling the effects of ignoring the Constitution right now.  By forcing more currency into circulation, our purchasing power is diluted.  Inflation is a slow and insidious stealth tax that is simply the result of this debt based monetary system.  This system empowers and benefits those who create the currency and receive it first as they get to spend it into circulation before it has an effect on the economy.  They're stealing purchasing power from you and transferring it to the banks and the government every hour of every day because of this false monetary system.  And it's not like the people at the top don't know this.  To quote the Federal Reserve, the decrease in purchasing power incurred by the holders of money due to inflation imparts gains to the issuers of money.  This is a fraud.  It is a pyramid scheme.  It is a Ponzi scheme.  It's a scam and it's a lie.  
<p>Our entire monetary system is nothing but a form of legalized theft.  But here's the biggest con job of them all.  The Federal Reserve is not Federal, it has stockholders.  There is no federal agency that has stockholders.  What's a stockholder?  A share of stock represents a percentage of ownership in a corporation.  So the stockholders are the owners of that corporation.  Therefore, the Federal Reserve is a private corporation with owners and you can see it for yourself if you go to the Federal Reserve's website and it will say the stockholders receive an annual dividend of 6%.  
<p>Now we know that the stock in the Federal Reserve was originally issued to the largest banks in the United States, but because of mergers and acquisitions through the years you can't actually trace who owns the stock in the Federal Reserve.  That's a very closely guarded secret.  My guess would be that the owners are those primary dealers.  The banks that get to make a profit by selling part of our national debt, those bonds, to the Federal Reserve who buys them with a check from nothing.  Then we pay tax to pay the principal and the interest on those bonds so that the Federal Reserve can pay the banks a 6% dividend.  
<p>Don't be alarmed if you don't quite comprehend the deception of this system at first glance.  Very few people do.  It is purposely complex.  The economist John Maynard Keynes once wrote, by this means government may secretly and unobserved confiscate the wealth of the people and not one man in a million will detect the theft.  I believe that presented correctly anyone can understand the system, regardless of how complex it is.  So let's do a recap and break it down even more.  
<p>The way this system works is that step one, the government creates glorified IOU's.  These bonds increase our national debt, and put the public on the hook to pay it back.  Step two, IOU's are swapped to create currency.  The Treasury sells the bonds to the banks.  The banks then turn around and sell our national debt at a profit to the Federal Reserve which they probably own.  The Federal Reserve then opens its checkbook that doesn't have a penny in it and buys those IOU's with IOU's that it writes, checks on a checking account that has a zero balance.  Then they give those checks to the banks and currency just springs into existence, and then the whole process repeats.  This results in a buildup of bonds at the Federal Reserve and currency at the Treasury, which is really just a supply of numbers.  The Treasury then deposits the numbers in the various branches of the government and we get to step three, the government spends the numbers on promises, public works, social programs and war.  
<p>Then the government employees, contractors and soldiers deposit their pay into the banks and we get to step four, where the banks multiply the numbers by magically inventing more IOU's through Fractional Reserve Lending where they steal a portion of everyone's deposit and lend it out.  That currency gets redeposited and then a portion is stolen again.  And the process repeats over and over magnifying the currency supply exponentially.  Then we work for some of those numbers which brings us to step five, where our numbers are taxed.  We pay taxes to the IRS who then turns our numbers over to the Treasury so the Treasury can pay the principal plus the interest on bonds that were purchased by the Federal Reserve with a check from nothing.  Then we get to step six, the Debt Ceiling Delusion.  The system is designed to require ever increasing levels of debt and will eventually collapse under its own weight because politicians always kick the can down the road.  They don't want it to collapse on their watch.  And finally step seven, the secret owners take their cut.  The world's largest banks own the Federal Reserve.  Those banks make a profit selling our national debt to the Fed.  They make a profit when the Fed pays them interest on the reserves held at the Fed.  And the Fed pays them a 6% dividend on their ownership of the Fed.  
<p>This system is fundamentally evil.  It funnels wealth from the working population to the government and the banking sector.  It is the cause of the artificial booms and busts of modern economies and it causes great disparity of wealth between the rich and the working class.  And it is only possible because we no longer use real money, we use currency.  But worst of all, it is a form of enslavement.  Bond is the root word of bondage.  Whenever a government issues a bond, it is a promise to make us pay tax in the future.  Nobody asked you if you wanted to pay tax today for the prosperity we all enjoyed in the last century.  Nobody is asking our children if they want to work hard in the future to pay for the prosperity we're enjoying now.  
<p>George Washington once wrote to James Madison, "No generation has the right to contract debts greater than can be paid off during the course of its own existence."  By stealing prosperity from tomorrow so we can spend it today, we enslave ourselves and future generations.  Now this all sounds pretty bad but there is great hope for you are the greatest threat to this false monetary system.  This system relies on the public being ignorant of its workings.  Please share this knowledge with everyone you know because an informed public that fully understands the system can build a better future for generations to come.  
<p>And now I leave you with this quote, widely attributed to a former Director of the Bank of England.  "The modern banking system manufacturers money out of nothing."  The process is perhaps the most astounding piece of sleight of hand that was ever invented.  Banking was conceived in iniquity and born in sin.  Bankers own the earth.  Take it away from them.  But leave them the power to create money and control credit and with the flick of a pen they will create enough money to buy it back again.  But if you want to continue as the slaves of bankers and pay the cost of your own slavery, let them continue to create money and to control credit.
<p>This the Federal Reserve in Washington DC.  It's located on Constitution Street and that is just as much of a joke as the New York Fed being located on Liberty Street.  Both of them are unconstitutional, both of them limit our Liberty and they transfer wealth away from us every second of every day to the Federal Reserve, to the government and to the banking sector.
<p>You are now among the one in a million that can detect theft of your prosperity.  So the big question is what can you do about it.  One, watch this video until you can describe and teach it to others.  Those who understand the system can make preparations for its unavoidable collapse and protect themselves.  History shows that those who don't will probably be wiped out.  Two, share this video with everyone, especially those you care about.  All it takes is a mouse click or two to get this message in front of millions.  Post this video on Facebook, tweet it, email it to loved ones.  Please share it wherever you can.  Three, join the conversation.  The current world monetary system is based on a 300 year old design meant to enrich a few at the expense of the many.  There must be a better way.  At HiddenSecretsOfMoney.com, we've created an open source platform for the design and development of a new world monetary system.  We're calling on every economist, every student, every college, every bright mind and anyone who cares to join the discussion.  In educating ourselves and each other, we can prevent the further loss of our freedoms and maybe, just maybe, win some of them back.
<p>I think your Episode 4 is very beneficial, very helpful.  It's going to introduce these ideas to a lot of people and like I've just been talking about, we have to change people's mind.  And the more they understand, the better.  And I think we're at this point now where more people in the last several years, four five years have thought about the Fed than they ever have in the previous 95 years.  So I think I an explanation and diagrams to show it is very helpful because quite frankly they're not going to get it in their grade school.  They're not going to get it in their high school.  They're not going to get it in college unless they're in a very rare circumstance to understand how this works.
<p>You know, for years before I got involved in really studying gold and some of the things I write and talk about today I was a monetary economist for decades.  In your video you talk about the primary dealers, I was Chief Counsel and Chief Credit Officer, one the largest primary dealers for ten years so I had an inside seat on the Treasury market and have the privilege of working with several former Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors, mainly, Johnson and David Mullins going back to the 80's and 90's.  So I'm very immersed in what you're talking about.  I thought it was extremely accurate, extremely clear.  I didn't think you were stretching on any points.  It was really like something out of a PhD course except that it was very easy to understand.  I think it's accessible.  I think we're seeing a little bit of a revolution in communications in the following sense, you know, as you point out the Fed was created 1913.  Well, in 1913, there was no web, there was no YouTube, no Twitter.  There is really no one to kind of stand up and oppose the Fed or call them out if you will or really get into a discussion that everyday Americans could follow.  That's not true now with social media and everything else.  You can reach out to millions and tens of millions of people and tell them what's going on.  I think you've done that.  You've done it successfully.  I applaud it.  I think this a great video.  I look forward to seeing it again.  I know millions of people will enjoy it.
<p>Well, as we know the Federal Reserve believes it can create money out of thin air.  Not realize money is supposed to represent real products and services.  And what people don't realize is when the Fed does that in effect as James pointed out it's a form of taxation.  It's a form of confiscation and because people don't see it the politicos get away with it.  But it also undermines social trust.  It just is corrosive throughout society.  We're going to have a lot of turmoil in the coming years but it's going to be the kind of turmoil that leads to positive things.  So don't despair, get out there and fight because the tide is going to turn.  This is going to be the states last stand.
<p>Thank you!
<p>This episode of Mike Maloney's Hidden Secrets of Money was brought to you by GoldSilver.com and the new Silver Pegasus Round.  To learn how to protect your family and turn the coming economic storms into opportunity, visit GoldSilver.com.
