---
layout: post
title: Video - Why Bitcoin is a Better Way to do International Money Transfers
description: Video - Why Bitcoin is a Better Way to do International Money Transfers
author: Melvin Draupnir
authorurl: /melvin-draupnir/
published: true
---

<p>This video explains how Bitcoin is way more advantage than sending funds <a href="/buy-bitcoin-with-paypal/">using wire transfer or PayPal</a>. It will let you know how to send money without any third party fees. It also tackles about no charge back risk when using Bitcoin.</p>

<center><iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dhh_4NXaYZw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

<h2>TRANSCRIPT</h2>
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align: left;" trbidi="on">
This is why Bitcoin is a better way to do international money transfers. &nbsp;John's a software consultant. &nbsp;John's client in Germany needs to send him 1,000 U.S dollars for some work he did. &nbsp;In the past, this is how John would receive his payment. &nbsp;He could use PayPal. &nbsp;The client in Germany would transfer euros from his bank account into a German PayPal account and then use PayPal to send the money to John's accounts in the U.S. &nbsp;Now, John won't get the full $1,000. &nbsp;PayPal takes a transaction fee of nearly 4%. &nbsp;But wait there is more fees. &nbsp;They'll also charge a currency conversion fee of 2.5% percent from the client. &nbsp;And the fees don't end there. &nbsp;The exchange rate PayPal uses as a retail rate and can vary widely from the actual interbank rate from 1 to 3%. &nbsp;So, in total PayPal could be taking up to 8% to handle this transaction. &nbsp;And yes, it gets worse for up to 60 days the client could claim a charge back. &nbsp;PayPal instantly freeze a thousand dollars in John's PayPal account. &nbsp;And if he doesn't have enough to cover this, PayPal will pull the $1,000 out of his linked bank account. &nbsp;Pretty harsh.<br />
Okay, so now let's look at the other traditional route. &nbsp;A wire transfer. &nbsp;In this case the interbank exchange rate is used and hopefully the bank won't front run John on the exchange. &nbsp;The fee for a wild transfer on its senders in, is usually $25 but could be as much as $40. &nbsp;But let's use $25 for this example. &nbsp;For the receiver, it's typically $10 to receive a wire. &nbsp;So, the total fees by the bank is about 3.5% and usually takes three to five business days to clear. &nbsp;Now, let's compare that to Bitcoin. &nbsp;At the current exchange rate, $1,000 will be about 9.5 Bitcoins. &nbsp;Fortunately, Bitcoins have been embraced by the German government so there's an active exchange there. &nbsp;The client can use his local currency to buy 9.5 Bitcoins on the exchange with a transaction fee of 0.5%. &nbsp;He then sends the Bitcoins to John where he could either have it instantly converted over to U.S. dollars for a fee of 1% or manually traded at 0.55% because both exchanges are very liquid and you are transacting direct with the other Bitcoin holder with no bank intermediaries. &nbsp;You're getting a very good foreign exchange rate as well as a very low Bitcoin transaction fee.<br />
Additionally, with Bitcoin the transaction is irreversible. &nbsp;There is no chargeback risk and the whole thing can be transacted in a matter of minutes, not days. &nbsp;The total cost of doing this Bitcoin based exchange 1.05% to 1.5%. &nbsp;So, let's recap 3.5% for a wire transfer and wait three to five business days. &nbsp;8% in fees for a PayPal transaction, with the risk of a chargeback, 1.5% for a Bitcoin based transfer with no charge back risk. &nbsp;It's pretty clear who the winner is.<br />
To learn more about Bitcoin please visit coinerepublic.com. &nbsp;Coinrepublic, supporting the future of money.</div>
