---
layout: post
title: Bitgold Review | About Page
author: WeUseCoins
authorurl: https://www.weusecoins.com/
published: true
---

### Bitgold Review | About Bitgold
<a href="https://bitcoinmagazine.com/20291/bitgold-announces-bitcoin-like-system-gold-storage-payments/">Bitgold</a> is a brand new platform for that intends to offer gold payments to customers. They do not take customers from the United States.
<p>According to an <a href="http://video.cnbc.com/gallery/?video=3000364663">interview with CNBC</a> they have 104,817 active customers and store approximately 276 kilograms of bullion stored or about $10.7 million at $1,213 per ounce. This means there are approximately $103 per active user.
<p>Major competitors include BullionVault and GoldMoney. BullionVault has approximately 55,000 customers and $2B of bullion stored or about $36,000 per customer while GoldMoney has about 22,000 customers and $1.3B or about $60,000 per customer.
### Is Bitgold safe?
<p>Bitgold is new, unproven and appears to be in a regulatory grey area. The company itself does not appear to state what regulator has jurisdiction and oversees their trade practices such as ensuring that customer funds are kept safe. Additionally, the CEO has endorsed the use of the system with online gambling.
<p>According to <a href="/bitgold-filing.pdf">page 20 of their initial public filing</a> they conclude that:
<blockquote cite="/bitgold-filing.pdf">"neither company is eligible to be registered with the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada ... There can be no assurance that BitGold’s services or Internet platform will be acceptable to foreign regulatory bodies. Foreign governments may seek to restrict access to BitGold’s services, block BitGold’s website, or impose other restrictions that may affect BitGold’s ability to offer service to new or existing users in those for an extended period of time or indefinitely.</blockquote>
<p>Consequently, the uncertainty risk from a new service provider may not outweigh the risk of going with a trusted provider like BullionVault or GoldMoney.
### Bitgold CEO endorses use with online gambling
From an interview with the <a href="http://business.financialpost.com/investing/bitgold-begins-trading-on-tsx-venture-exchange-as-gold-transaction-platform-builds-momentum">Financial Post</a>:
<blockquote cite="http://business.financialpost.com/investing/bitgold-begins-trading-on-tsx-venture-exchange-as-gold-transaction-platform-builds-momentum">Based on the rapid take-up of the platform in the first few days, he said it appears to be far more than a niche product for a small group of users. He noted that hardcore gold bugs make up less than 10 per cent of the user base so far.
<p>“I’m seeing friends who signed up sending payments to each other,” Sebag said. “I know they bet on football, and now they’re paying each other.”</blockquote>
### Is Bitgold a scam?
<p>There is no evidence of any nefarious or malicious actions being taken by Bitgold. However, potential customers should keep in mind that this is a new and unproven service with significant legal questions that do not appear to be definitively answered with a CEO who actively endorses its use for highly regulated activities like online gambling. It would be unfortunate if this ended up like e-Gold which resulted in the <a href="http://www.psmag.com/business-economics/digital-currencies-led-biggest-money-laundering-case-ever-bitcoin-74083">largest digital currency money laundering case of all time</a>.