---
title: Qtum 
seotitle: Qtum 
img: /images/company/qtum.png
---

Combining a modified Bitcoin Core infrastructure with an intercompatible version of the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), <a href="https://qtum.org">Qtum</a> merges the reliability of Bitcoin’s unfailing blockchain with the endless possibilities provided by smart contracts. 

Designed with stability, modularity and interoperability in mind, Qtum is the foremost toolkit for building trusted decentralized applications, suited for real-world, business oriented use cases. Its hybrid nature, in combination with a first-of-its-kind PoS consensus protocol, allow Qtum applications to be compatible with major blockchain ecosystems, while providing native support for mobile devices and IoT appliances.

## Smart Contracts that Mean Business

Qtum makes it easier than ever for established sectors and legacy institutions to interface with blockchain technology.

Create your own tokens, automate supply chain management and engage in self-executing agreements in a standardized environment, verified and tested for stability.

## Go Mobile

Building on Bitcoin’s UTXO model, the simple payment verification (SPV) protocol is supported by the Qtum codebase by default. As a result, it is now possible to execute smart contracts from lite wallets, which can be easily installed on any given mobile device, heralding an age of mobile decentralized applications. 

With this, the blockchain is finally ready to take up disruption in a world in which half of all internet traffic is being generated by smartphones and tablets.

## Account Abstraction Layer

Qtum extends Bitcoins 'Script' language so that it functions as a vehicle to transport code to Qtum’s version of the EVM. With this, it is now possible to execute smart contracts and run decentralized applications, simply and securely, in environments that were previously out of reach for turing-complete blockchains, combining the endless possibilities provided by smart contracts with the stability and maturity of the bitcoin ecosystem.

## Cross Platform and Backward Compatibility

Qtum is compatible with existing Ethereum contracts as well as Bitcoin gateways, and will maintain backward-compatibility even if the system is updated.

## Venture Capital Rounds

{% for company in site.data.companies %}
{% if company.company == 'Qtum' %}
{% include company_list.html %}
{% endif %}
{% endfor %}